Your strike is too shallow!
One of us must win the Grand Bout so that
we can give Ruri-nee the cure-all medicine!
All right, so while Gen's out deceiving Tsukasa,
let's get started on that cure-all drug.
Yeah!
What are we making with science next?
There's a material that's just as important
for building a civilization as iron.
The first man-made material in history,
synthesized using science...
Glass.
What's that?
Aren't we gonna make all sorts of drugs
now that we have electricity and all that?
Yeah, we are.
Clay pots are no longer going to cut it
for our happy chemistry experiments
if we want to make the cure-all sulfa drug.
Glass can stand up to
just about any chemical.
Glass is the foundation of chemistry.
Ten billion percent easy to process!
Yet it's tough as hell and durable!
You can even see through it, which means
you can observe the chemicals inside.
Really? Oh, man.
To top it all off, once we have glass,
we might finally get a chance
to yank that headpiece
off of Great Detective Suika
and see her true face.
11.0
Vision
Wait, Senku!
Suika doesn't want her face to be seen!
Take a good look.
Wow, Suika! You're perfectly adorable!
What the hell?!
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
How far have I walked?
Only the pain in my feet
Gives me a sense of the distance
The hope for a beautiful view
at the end of a long night
Is what keeps me going today
The mountains of the gods,
the palaces of green
The depths of the caves,
the ends of the deep blue sky
I'll go the full distance,
there are no limits
To the ends of the world
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
Rid away the impossibility of the dark
An odyssey turning mythology
into the everyday
In this painstaking journey,
turning over every stone
We'll expand our world
I have the fuzzy sickness in my eyes.
Everything looks fuzzy to me,
so I end up looking like this when I try
really hard to see, and it's embarrassing.
But with this mask, for some reason,
it's a little easier to see!
Yeah, that's the pinhole effect.
Nearsighted
If you look at an object through a small hole,
Normal
the light passing through it narrows,
bringing it into focus.
What does glass have to do
with Suika's fuzzy sickness?
It has ten billion percent to do with it!
Listen up, Suika.
You're nearsighted as hell.
That's not a disease.
It's not even a defect.
In a technological civilization,
it doesn't even bother anyone.
We have eyes of science, made from glass.
They're called glasses,
and they solve everything.
Science users can make eyes?
That's so amazing.
Yeah.
If I could, I'd love to see
the beauty of the world, too.
Even if it's just once.
I want to meet you guys
without the fuzziness.
I want to meet the real you, just once.
All right.
Let's make this glass stuff!
Yeah.
What do we need to gather, Senku?
Glass is made mostly from quartz sand.
I didn't see any in the
Chrome Collection, actually.
I'm not going to collect sand.
I did see a hint that'll lead
us to quartz sand, though.
This was the place.
This is where I found this
translucent rock as a kid.
That little tidbit is worth a ton.
That translucent rock, that crystal,
tends to be found in areas of
decayed granite, like this place.
And all this sand here is
the raw material for glass:
quartz sand.
Yo, the white grains are
falling out like crazy!
This is fun!
We'll get loads here.
Try to gather the see-through ones.
We grind down all the quartz
sand into fine grains.
Then we mix it with a bunch of other
stuff and melt it in the stove.
What else do we need?
We already have everything we need.
Thanks to all of our efforts so far.
Ten percent calcium carbonate, or sea shells.
Twenty percent cooked seaweed.
We used all this stuff when we made soap.
Now...
All right! Galena!
Lead acquired!
We just need to throw in some lead,
and we have super see-through lens glass.
It's shiny and see-through, like ice!
It's like a gem.
That's a weird-looking tool.
We'd die if we tried
to polish glass by hand.
We can use that super tough
corundum for polishing.
Glass has a Mohs hardness of about 6.
Corundum's is 9.
Polishing will be a piece of cake!
Here they go again with their stone talk.
And the strongest is diamond,
with a hardness of 10.
I can't keep up with them.
Diamond is nuts!
That's insane!
Suika, can you see what's in front of you?
They're just sunflowers.
It's not like I can't see at all, you know.
Again.
Why is your final strike so shallow?
It's your worst habit, Kinro.
Distance is crucial in spear fighting.
If you can't get a good sense of
distance, you'll never defeat Magma.
Distance, huh?
What can you do, though, right?
I mean, you have the fuzzy sickness.
That's why you ended up
with such a menacing look.
I was born that way.
I don't get it.
I'd just tell her, straight-up.
"It's not my fault.
It's my eyes. I'm actually way stronger."
Excuses are unbecoming of a grown man.
Don't tell anyone, Ginro.
You're both surprisingly
good-looking, Senku and Chrome.
What do you mean, "surprisingly"? Jeez.
Next, we're finally making glass instruments.
Now that Suika's labor potential
has leveled up super high,
we're going to put together
a full chemistry set.
Don't call her "labor potential"!
Just let it end as a feel-good story!
What are you laughing about?!
Acquired glass!!
It's time for our fun glasswork class!
Let's get working!
We're throwing these black rocks in, right?
I'm going to keep them coming!
You've gotten even more nimble, Suika.
I don't mess up anymore,
now that everything isn't fuzzy.
There's white bubbles coming out.
This is the foam that's created
when you burn obsidian.
We're using the foam as insulation
to make a glassblowing furnace.
Then we make an iron straw,
then we blow up the glass
with air, and that's it.
Hey, it was our first try.
When I first started making clay pots,
it took months before they looked decent.
Months?!
We don't have that much time!
I'm worried about Ruri-nee's health, too.
I'm not a glass craftsman.
Trial and error is all we've got.
A craftsman?
Hey, cut it out, Chrome!
Who the hell is that old fart?
Come on, Old Man Kaseki!
We could really use your skills!
Is this how you ask for favors?
By tying them up for your kinky rope play?
I'm not lending a single hand
to your shady sorcery!
See? He just won't come and help us.
Grandpa Kaseki...
I forgot to return your lacquer.
Oh, that's right.
Old man, were you the one who made
that fantastic, seasoned shield?
With no iron tools and
hardly any dyes to speak of?
It was a gift from when Kohaku's father,
Kokuyo, won in the Grand Bout.
I went all-out when I made it.
Gosh, that really takes me back...
The construction is ridiculously
advanced for the technology,
so I had a feeling there must
be a really good craftsman.
But I never thought it'd be
such a worn-out old fart.
Is that awesome suspension
bridge your handiwork, too?
Yeah, that's right.
And you had the gall to pull the planks out!
I'm never going to help you...
Wh-What's this translucent stonework here?
You don't have to help
us if you don't want to.
Just sit there and watch.
You're going to love this, Kaseki.
This is going to be ten billion
percent exhilarating for you.
I see. Heat makes it pliable and soft.
It's like blubber.
What ease of molding!
Crap, it's too thick again.
What are you doing?!
Darn it!
He's not spinning it steadily.
He's never going to make
a good vessel like that.
They're not doing this on purpose
to provoke me, are they?
Ugh, please...
There's no way a man who's
spent his whole life as a maker
is going to stay put in front of something
as drooltastic as glassblowing.
Am I right, Old Man Kaseki?
This is unbearable!
You got me good, damn it!
Let me handle this.
Are you serious with those muscles?
Suika, water.
Got it!
Oh, man! Oh, damn!
Isn't this your first time seeing glass?
He's got far more years
of craftwork experience.
I've been a craftsman for fifty
years, believe it or not.
I'm kind of a big deal.
There are people like you in every age.
Dudes with true talent,
who've spent their whole lives
with their heads down,
dedicated to their work.
Acquired Science Lab!!
Sweet!
Hey, what's the matter, Senku?
We finally have a lab now!
Show some joy!
Yeah, sure. Yippee.
We're just at the dawn of chemistry.
Things are starting to look pretty fancy
here in our kingdom of science,
chock full of attractions ten billion
times more fun than Tsukasa Land.
Kingdom of Science Map
Long time no see!
I'm Mecha Senku!
Here's an overview of the kingdom of science!
This is the kingdom's home base.
It's a mountain of the minerals that Chrome
has been collecting since he was a kid.
I've got tons of crazy treasures.
Kingdom of Science Map
Our familiar gourmet science
dish, foxtail millet ramen!
I can eat bowl after bowl!
It's so good!
And it's just so good!
Kingdom of Science Map
We rely on having power
in numbers to make iron.
To 1,500 degrees and beyond!
Hey, hey, this is really rough.
Kingdom of Science Map
Down with Magma!
These are the training grounds of hell!
Actually, it's just an open area.
Friendship! Hard work! Victory!
You're not one to talk!
You're the lowest of the low, Ginro!
The elbow grease generator.
It's the ultimate in green energy!
Kingdom of Science Map
Blowing glass with the skill of an artisan.
It bends like clay.
The scorching hot glass is cooled
slowly so that it doesn't crack.
And this is the laboratory.
We're charging down the sulfa drug route
with all kinds of insane chemicals.
Kingdom of Science Map
It's kind of spectacular, isn't it?
This kingdom of science
is starting to heat up.
We've only made the bare essentials.
We wouldn't get anywhere if we
were missing any one of these.
Was the technology even crazier
before the world collapsed?
Yeah.
It took two million years to get there.
And we're going to catch up and run past it.
Our first step is the cure-all sulfa drug.
Yay!
The sorcery team's so lucky.
They look like they're having
so much fun with shiny stuff.
It's not like we're...
Hey, Kinro, what if...
What if the spear tip were super shiny?
Don't you think it would help you practice,
since you could get a better sense
of distance with your fuzzy vision?
What are you talking about, Ginro?
Huh?
Hey, speaking of shiny...
Don't you think we should have
a golden spear and silver spear?
Strictly for the Grand Bout, of course.
We'll totally need them to win, won't we?
I don't know anything about fighting.
Is it true that a gold and silver
spear will help them beat Magma?
Senku, to borrow your words,
they ten billion percent just
want gold and silver spears.
I mean, now that you have
all this... glass, was it?
And this amazing laboratory...
I thought maybe you could make
a silver spear, you know.
And then taking down
Magma will be easy-peasy.
That's right.
Now that we have glassware,
we're going to have to suck it up and go get
the most difficult material to obtain.
All right.
Let's break in this brand new
laboratory by making a silver spear.
I'm sorry, Kinro.
I have a way of becoming everyone's favorite.
You aren't the slightest
bit my favorite, idiot.
This could literally cost
you your life, Ginro.
We're off on a great adventure to find
chemistry's greatest treasure.
You'll be putting your life on the
line in a maximum danger area.
You could seriously die there in an instant.
Maybe I don't know what to do
Hurry up, my mind is on the moon
Flying up to where the wind blew
In my hands awakens
The passion overflowing
Just wandering through this world
Your one shining pure
Could never be pierced
with a rusty knife
I'm burning like a fire gone wild
The moment an arrow
shot through my heart
The noise plaguing me was released
Everything was different
from that moment on
If I don't try, I'll never know
Why do flowers bloom?
Your voice echoes
Tell me why?
I just shouted to the sky
But you are no no no longer here,
that's right?
The life we confirmed that day
You can call it a fleeting
dream if you want
But I'll save you from a wounded today
Next Episode
Buddies Back to Back